okay what we've got here are a lot of the
pieces of a carcass of beef over let's start
from left we'll move to my right on this side
of the of the animal this is our hip of beef
in this case this is a hip a veal this would be
about 40% smaller than what a fully grown beef
would have but all the components are almost
exactly the same the major difference here is this
particular processor left the sirloin on the hip
whereas if I were to get a hip of beef the sirloin
region would be removed so it would actually
only be up to about this point right in front
of it this is a beef sirloin so when we actually
get to cutting this down we're going to compare
these two sirloins to see the size difference
next we have what's called the short loin
so this short line is where we would cut t-bones
we will get into this particular muscle but what
is missing from here will be our bottom sirloin
region which is more or less the abdominal region
of the carcass then we have our rib a rib
section is exactly how it describes its ribs
four through twelve and this is we would cut a
variation of various rib cuts finally we have a
section from the shoulder this particular section
from the shoulder is called the clod region
and this is what would be considered the upper
arm of the beef or the upper part of the shoulder
directly now what's important about understanding
and the reason why we've laid them out
this way is simply so we can start to understand
where these muscles are going to be coming from
and understanding where the muscles come from
is the beginning of the understanding of whether
or not the muscle is part of either a locomotive
muscle or it's a supportive muscle and what I mean
by that is if the muscle is part of the process
that helps the animal move or a muscle that is
constantly in use that means that those muscles
are constantly being worked they're constantly
getting food brought to them and they're getting
oxygen brought to them so those muscles will be
stronger in flavor but what it also means is that
the actual muscle fibers themselves will be larger
more engorged and they will be tougher there
will be more collagen formed between the fibers
themselves to help those fibers work together if
they are supportive muscles so muscles from the
mid region this mid region would often for human
standpoint we would refer to this as our core
these core muscles on a four-legged animal
aren't doing a lot of work you don't see
beef in the fields doing sit-ups or doing
a downward dog very often and so because of
that these muscles don't get that same exercise
they don't get the same amount of feed and oxygen
flowing through the muscles so they're going to
be less flavorful but a lot more naturally tender